Taken from https://www.reddit.com/r/AskHistorians/comments/timi4/the_askhistorians_master_book_list/

> This is for "above average" general readers. If the book averages two or more footnotes per page, think twice and justify its inclusion. Secondary and tertiary sources are strongly favored: this is for general readers. Feel free to ignore these suggestions, but include reasons for why you are ignoring it (ie, "This is an academic work, but is highly readable"). As Agentdcf pointed out, we don't want this turning into the "History" section at the Barnes & Noble, but also bare in mind that these works should be accessible both in terms of content and in terms of availability. Anything, however, is acceptable with sufficient justification.
So, without further ado:

General
Why the West Rules, for Now by Ian Morris: An excellent overview of both Western and Eastern history. Morris combines a readable style and an ability to explain historical concepts in an easy manner with a historian's rigor. An excellent introduction to the topic of historical studies.
A Little History of the World by Ernst Gombrich. It is essentially a summary of human history to around the 1930s. I read this when I was younger - it's aimed perfectly at interested children, and manages to be accessible and entertaining without being condescending.
Cities by John Reader. A social history of the development of cities - particularly good chapters on the Renaissance and Mexico City stick in my mind.
Winchester's Atlantic is a very interesting history of the Atlantic Ocean, and particularly of the relationship between Britain and the Americas. It is somewhat similar to Kurlansky and Bryson's work but still enjoyable. Winchester has also written a book on the invention of the dictionary - I haven't read it but it's supposed to be excellent.
The Mediterranean in the Time of Philip the Second by Fernand Braudel: Possibly the most important work of history of the 20th cen. I probably wouldn't argue this, but my point is the case can and has been made. It's a major major work -- and tremendously written. When we talk about Jared Diamond, we're talking about big, long, slow processes as determining the shape of history. That's Braudel, in a nutshell--except he tried to deal with everything from trade, warfare, religion, urbanism, naval technology, culture, individual agency, etc. He may not have succeeded in explaining everything, but he literally changed the game in France in the 1950s and 60s (and 70s in America, when his work was translated into English).
Empires of the Word by Nicholas Oster: A great work of general world history for the general public. Exploring history through the lens of languages give a new perspective on many eras. As a bonus, a historian's work is often based around reading primary sources - knowing why the primary sources are in a particular language helps you appreciate them all the more.
The Prize by Daniel Yergin: Describes the history of the oil industry beginning in the 1800s through the 1990s. Combines many historical narrative types to create a sweeping, global narrative of how oil has impacted all aspects of society. Particularly good at explaining the science aspect of the oil industry--how oil is found and produced, how oil varies from region to region, etc.
Historiography
Who Owns Antiquity? by James Cuno. Title is self-explanatory - discusses issues of nationality and imperialism in the management of historical artefacts. The author is making an argument against nationalistic retention, but still provides a very good overview.
The Landscape of History John Lewis Gaddis: If you are interested in how History and Historians view the world around them and the world of the past this is for you. You'll often hear references to 'thinking like a lawyer' or some other profession. Gaddis sums up what it means to think like a historian. He also provides a strong line in the sand between historical inquiry and the social sciences and I personally enjoyed him sort of tearing into the objectivity and the 'scientific' approach that social scientists shroud themselves in.
What is History E. H. Carr: Read this for the same reason you would read Gibbon's decline and fall. Its extremely eloquent and flat out beautiful in its prose at times. E H Carr was a leading man in the historical field in the mid 20th century. He treads a middle line between empiricism and idealism. To quote from a review 'Arguably the central ideas in the book constitute today's mainstream thinking on British historical practice'.
History: A very short introduction John H Arnold: Its short. Its less a true 'historiography' in that it doesn't get into method or theory and is more a history of history. Again I will quote a far more able reviewer. "This is an extremely engaging book, lively, enthusiastic and highly readable, which presents some of the fundamental problems of historical writing in a lucid and accessible manner. As an invitation to the study of history it should be difficult to resist."--Peter Burke, Emmanuel College, Cambridge
That Noble Dream: The "Objectivity Question" and the American Historical Profession by Peter Novick. Addresses the naivete of the ideal of objectivity. A nice complement to Gaddis in some respects, though Gaddis is probably the better volume.
Modern History--The study of history beginning with the 19th century globalization.
East Asia
A Modern History of Japan by Andrew Gordon
War without Mercy by John Dower is pretty much the best comparative look at race and ideology in the Pacific War. It's long and a bit academic, but there's none better. (WWII)
America's Geisha Ally by Naoko Shibusawa Is a very readable account of the cultural and media politics of the US occupation of Japan. It examines the transformation of Japan from implacable enemy to "geisha ally" in US eyes, and in doing so, explains much of Japan's current relationship with the US. (US occupation of Japan)
Under the Loving Care of the Fatherly Leader by Bradley K. Martin: It blends into journalism by the end (plenty of descriptions of current happenings), but his explanations of Japanese occupation, revolution and Kim Il-Sung's rise to power was quite good.
Embracing Defeat by John Dower: The benchmark book on immediate postwar culture in Japan. It is a bit more readable than War Without Mercy. (Immediate Post-WWII)
Rearranging the Landscape of the Gods by Sarah Thal: Nominally this work is about the Konpira Shrine and its changes from the late Sengoku to the modern world. But it goes far deeper, and provides a vivid illustration of the extraordinary changes in Japanese socity, particularly during the tumultuous times after the Meiji Restoration.
Europe/"The West"
Cod and Salt by Mark Kurlansky are similar to Bryson - both use a somewhat obscure but still fascinating subject matter to narrate the rise of America (among other things). His work is very readable.
The Balkans by Mark Mazower: A Brief Summary of Balkan history to the present day, but nevertheless very insightful. A great starting point to see why people tend to have been wrong about the Balkans.
Yugosavia: Twice there was a Country by John Lampe: A great overview of the turbulent 20th century and the brief existence of a Yugoslav state.
Postwar: A history of Europe since 1945 by Tony Judt: Very detailed and good overview of Europe's post war history.
George, Nicholas, and Wilhelm by Miranda Carter: A very good account of the politics leading up to WWI; Carter's thesis is that the actions of George V of England, Nicholas II of Russia, and Wilhelm of Germany had repercussions and led the countries to war. It helps if you have an understanding of late 19th century politics, but it's not necessary. Carter's writing is pretty scholarly, but I caught myself laughing a few times while reading - really readable.
Eastern Europe
Bloodlands: Europe between Hitler and Stalin by Timothy Snyder. Very readable account of the events in countries caught between the Soviet Union and Hitler's Germany during the beginnings of WWII, starting with Ukraine's Holodomor and the political tensions that rose from Stalin's paranoia of outside influence during those events. Really gives you a sense of the suffering of the people.
The Dictators by Richard Overy. This is not quite a readable as Snyder, but a very well-written and well-documented comparative history of the regimes of Hitler and Stalin, highly recommended for the enthusiast already familiar with the general details of each regime's history and wanting to really gain an understanding of their similarities and differences.
Darkness at Dawn: The Rise of the Russian Criminal State by Satter. Very readable and recent history of the rise of the criminal influence in Russian government following the downfall of the Soviet Union. Really uses his understanding of Russian psychology gained by years as the Moscow correspondent for the WSJ to give insight into what happened and why.
Three books by Richard Pipes: Russia Under the Old Regime, The Russian Revolution and Russia Under the Bolshevik Regime. Pipes has a somewhat conservative take on events, but the writing clearly quarantines his opinion away from his facts, and, well, for someone who still remembers standing in line around the block for stale bread in winter of '92, like myself, his harsh criticism is not unjustified.
The Russian Revolution by Sheila Fitzpatrick is a shorter summary of the Revolution which is extremely readable.
The Oligarchs: Wealth and Power in the New Russia by Davis Hoffman. A very well-written account of the rise of the current Russian inner-circle in the highest echelons of power under Putin in the years during the downfall of the Soviet Union. Starts with short biographies of the 6 main players in this history, and then gives a fascinating detailed account of their accumulation of and fights for power.
North America
1861: The Civil War Awakening by Adam Goodheart: A popular history book that discusses the mood of the nation in the lead-up to the Civil War.
Arc of Justice: A Saga of Race, Civil Rights, and Murder in the Jazz Age by Kevin Boyle: Winner of a National Book Award, this book is a great introduction to housing discrimination and racial tensions in Detroit in the early part of the 20th century.
Red Hills and Cotton: An Upcountry Memory by Ben Robertson: Provides a history of the upcountry of South Carolina as memoirs.
Black Majority: Negroes in Colonial South Carolina from 1670 through the Stono Rebellion by Peter H. Wood: Discusses the early history of African slaves in Colonial South Carolina to the plantation period.
The Glorious Cause by Robert Middlekauf: Rather by definition the master book on the Revolution. Not formative or revolutionary in its approach, but a comprehensive look at the entire war.
Who Killed Canadian History? - Jack Granatstein. If you want to go in to any depth in Canadian history, reading Granatstein is a must. This is one of his more controversial books, it's always under fire from other scholars, which makes it an interesting read about Canadian history.
The Empire Within - Sean Mills. Important because it provides detailed information about the rise, and existence of the FLQ. Important to show that Quebec has a distinct history from the rest of the country.
Towards Defining the Prairies: Region, Culture, and History. A Collection of Essays about the Canadian West from Gerald Friesen to W.C. Morton. Way more academic. Shows how unique the Canadian west is, and much like Quebec, how it has its own distinct history.
John Adams by David McCullough: Very readable account of an often misunderstood man. Particularly great at juxtaposing Adams's vanity with his genuine belief in the ideas of the American Revolution.
Battle Cry of Freedom by James McPherson: Widely considered as the seminal one-volume work on the Civil War period, focusing holistically on the economic, social, political, and military aspects of the time.
Oxford History of the United States series, of which I don't think I have seen anything negative written about any of the books in the series.
Parting the Waters: America in the King Years, 1954-1963 by Taylor Branch: a Pulitzer Prize winning book detailing, as the title implies, the civil rights movement in the United States.
Middle East
Palestine and the Arab-Israeli Conflict: a history with documents by Smith. This is a nice, concise history of the conflict that contains accessible documents that are relevant to the previous section. It is largely low-bias and perfectly captures both sides of the debate.
Turkey: A Modern History by Zurcher. This book, while lacking in primary source references in some spots, is the most expansive modern history of a country that I've ever read. It manages it's events in a clear way, and connects the important events to the overall history of the middle east.
A History of the Arab Peoples: Albert Hourani, a classic in the discipline.
The Modern Middle East: A History James Gelvin, I think this book wants to avoid being a textbook but ends up in the same place, but does it better and in fewer pages than Cleveland.
A Brief History of the Late Ottoman Empire M. Şükrü Hanioğlu, because none of the other synthetic histories of the late Ottoman Empire are as brief or succinctly worded as this one.
Osman's Dream: A History of the Ottoman Empire by Caroline Finkel: the best, and really only, single-volume history of the OE. Most of the rest are a snore to read.
A Quiet Revolution: The First Palestinian Intifada and Nonviolent Resistance by Mary E. King: The title is fairly self explanatory, but I think it gives a good analysis of the events. Also the focus on the non-violence movement and its effect are frequently missing from the popular discourse on the matter.
The Middle East: A Brief History of the Last 2,000 Years by Bernard Lewis -This is a very readable book by the fields leading scholar.
A History of Iran: Empire of the Mind by Michael Axworthy
Rule Of Experts: Egypt, Technopolitics and Modernity by Timothy Mitchell: an innovative take on the history of the modern world in eight interlocking essays about Egypt in the 20th century which deal with everything from land surveys to the plagiarisms of mid-century anthropology to a history of the Aswan Dam from the perspective of a mosquito. This book challenges traditional ways of talking about history by deemphasizing human agency and focusing on the formative power of knowledge practices and technology.
Afghanistan: A Cultural and Political History by Thomas Barfield: Broad history detailing the political changes that have taken place within Afghanistan over the past few centuries, along with a readable description of the various ethnic groups residing within the country.
All the Shah's Men by Stephen Kinzer: A great read about the overthrow of Iran's shah, the role of the U.S. in that coup, and the eventual rise of the revolutionary movement in the region.
Western Eurasia--The study of civilizations ultimately derived from Mesopotamian agriculture.
Near East
Persian Fire by Tom Holland: is a really great introduction, whilst also being a great book about Greek History at the same time. Now, because he is deliberately constructing a comprehensive world for readers he is having to fill in quite a few gaps, and in my opinion not always correctly. But nonetheless his style of writing will leave you with a very clear image of the cultures he writes about.
Rise and Fall of Egypt by Toby Wilkinson It's very well written with a superb narrative style and from an academic perspective its predominantly spot on. It tends to gloss over some of the debates which are still ongoing but only to maintain a cohesive narrative.
The Twilight of Ancient Egypt by Karol Mysliwiec. It covers the cultural melting pot in the Nile valley quite nicely and is very accessible in terms of style. Not quite as general a history as Toby Wilkinson though.
The Tomb in Ancient Egypt by Salima Ikram: which is comprehensive and full of beautiful pictures to properly track evolution of funerary culture.
Complete Pyramids by Mark Lehner: Of a similar ilk but more focused on the old kingdom complexes.
The Bible Unearthed by Israel Finkelstein and Neil Asher Silberman. Among the most popular introductory level books on any biblical subject ever written. Just be a little bit careful, Finkelstein works in his "low chronology" without preface, which is good for his inteded audience, but bad for a broader view, as it remains contentious. It's worth picking up Grabbe's book to help spot where he does so.
*Did God Have a Wife *by William Dever. Dever has a decidedly more conservative flair, but trumps other more conservative scholars by being an archaeologist, and--for the most part--giving the archaeology priority.
Israel's History and the History of Israel by Mario Liverani. Liverani stands out as being perhaps the truest scholar of the Ancient Near East generally to write on the history of Israel, and this is valuable on that basis alone.
Ancient Israel: What do we know and how do we know it? by Lester Grabbe. Despite the somewhat colloquial feel of the title, this is not light reading. Nor is it intended to be, it provides a succinct, easily understandable discussion of all of the major debates in Israelite archaeology today. It wonderfully fills a fairly obvious gap for a quick and dirty reference for recent discoveries.
Biblical History and Israel's Past, Megan B. Moore and Brad E. Kelle (2011). I can't say enough about how fantastic this book is. The breadth and accessibility of this overview of the current state of research is incredible. The suggested reading at the end of each chapter provides a wonderful selection of equally readable texts (at least among ones I've read). Just. . .fantastic.
Classical Civilization
Iron Age Europe
The World of the Celts by Simon James: Provides a condensed overview of the Celtic world including everything from theoretical beginnings to the idea of modern Celts and from fighting Rome to farming practices.
The Atlantic Celts: Ancient People or Modern Invention by Simon James: A very short book which outlines the development of the Celtic "myth." Its conclusions are fairly controversial, but some very interesting light is shone on the creation of national identities.
Greece
Thundering Zeus: The Making of Hellenistic Bactria, by Frank L. Holt (1999): It's quite a current book, it's well researched, it's a great introduction to Bactria and to Central Asia as an entity.
From Samarkhand to Sardis, by Susan Sherwin White and Amelie Kuhrt. It's very well written, it introduced the approach of looking at the Hellenistic world and Seleucid Empire in their own right as opposed to just an extension of Classical Greece, and it is very comprehensive.
Rome
Why Rome Fell by Adrian Goldsworthy: Goldsworthy is the author of numerous works of popular history and is very familiar with the form. He provides and excellent and detailed narrative, as well as an analysis focused on political systems.
The Fires of Vesuvius by Mary Beard: Readable and lively, Beard captures the vivacious character of Pompeii along with providing an introduction to the field of classical archaeology.
Rubicon by Tom Holland: A great read that really brings Republican Rome to life.
Mediterranean Anarchy, Interstate War, and the Rise of Rome by Arthur Eckstein: I'm probably biased because Dr. Eckstein is one of my professors, but this book brought up an idea of why Rome came to be the preeminent Mediterranean power that hadn't really been explored extensively yet. Eckstein chose to explain it in modern Realist terms of political relations and alliances, rather than the raw brutality and tendencies towards violence which characterized the period - something he argues was not unique to Rome at all, nor were they "better" at it than anyone, as was the prevailing theory.
The Fall of Rome and End of Civilization by Bryan Ward-Perkins: A work that has quickly become a standard, it uses archaeology to provocatively draw a harsh line between the Roman and post-Roman world. It also functions as an excellent introduction to archaeology and the Roman economy.
Medieval
The Year 1000 by Robert Lacey and Danny Danziger: a fascinating narrative history of the year 1000. It is short and certainly aimed at a mass market but still informative and entertaining.
Exploring the World of the Vikings by Richard Hall: Written by the former head of the archaeological digs in York, it's the best and most up-to-date overview of the Viking age. It's a bit archaeology-heavy, but in that field that's a must, due to the basically non-existing genuine historical tradition.
The Crusades: The Authoritative History of the War for the Holy Land by Thomas Asbridge: Asbridge is one of the leading modern scholars of the crusades, and this books is not only expansive in its scope, covering the crusading movement from genesis to the aftermath of the fall of Acre, but it is also quite readable. Plus it's quite inexpensive for a scholarly work. Heavily focused on the Third Crusade, particularly on Saladin and Richard.
The Grand Strategy of the Byzantine Empire by Edward Luttwak. Luttwak focuses on the general narrative of Byzantium in this book. He spends time detailing the military, social, political, and cultural realities of the Byzantine Empire and outlines why it was able to function as long as it did in spite of a great many internal and external stressors.
The Civilization of the Middle Ages: A Completely Revised and Expanded Edition of Medieval History by Norman F. Cantor: he is able to explain the schism of the Catholic church very well, as well as the various societies. He also presents a theory on why Eastern Europe opposed the use of icons.
Early Modern
Natasha's Dance by Orlando Figes is a very readable record of Russian history and cultural identity, from Peter the Great to the Soviet Union.
The Origins of Modern Europe 1660-1789 by James L. White. Readable summary of European history during that period - I've only used a few chapters for papers but it was extremely useful.
Crucible of War: The Seven Years' War and the Fate of Empire in British North America, 1754-1766 by Fred Anderson: It was a great book about the events that proceeded (and Anderson asserts helped to bring about) the American Revolution while also touching upon the broader war between Britain and France throughout the world (Havana, the Philippines, India, Europe). But don't be fooled, this is mainly focused on the invasion of Canada and what would become the Midwest and the immediate aftermath.
The Dutch Republic: Its Rise, Greatness, and Fall 1477-1806 by Jonathan Israel: An impressive scholarly well-documented account of the history of the Low Countries (in relation to the rest of Early Modern Europe). Yet, very accessible for the general reader.
The Rise of Modern Warfare 1618-1815 by H.W. Koch: Absolutely full of etchings, portraits, and diagrams. Divided into several sections based on country: England, France, Russia, etc., as well as general discussion of modern warfare. Each section discusses uniform, armament, and tactics. Suitable for in-depth study or just looking at the pictures.
For Russian history, anything by Robert Massie. Peter the Great, Catherine the Great, The Romanovs. Very readable, well-written, well-researched, very detailed and in-depth and yet never boring accounts of Russian history.
History of Russia by Vernadsky. A readable overview of Russian history from Kievan Rus' through WWII, if you get one of the later editions (the earliest edition was published in 1929). Much better written than Riasanovsky's still-in-print book of the same name, which I could never understand why people enjoy reading.
The Return of Martin Guerre by Natalie Zemon Davis: Heavy archival research backs an exploration of common culture in a 16th-century French village. Particularly present are questions of identity, evidence, and community. This is a very popular work by a celebrated American cultural historian of early modern France
The Cheese and the Worms: The Cosmos of a Sixteenth-Century Miller by Carlo Ginzburg: The author uses archival research to address questions of how common people lived in early modern (northern) Italy. The book offers a glimpse of the ways common people participated in the discourse of ideas in counter-reformation Italy.
Early Modern Colonial
Mayflower by Nathaniel Philbrick - a very good book about the founding of Plymouth Plantation, and the first 50 years afterwards.
Mayflower Bastard - An interesting book, about a young boy on the Mayflower, and his life afterwards up to and including the Salem Witch Trials. The style of the book is offputting to some, and the author has been criticised for including too much supposition, but it is worth a read.
Savage Kingdom by Benjamin Woolley - a very well written account of the Jamestown colony, including a lot of detailed build up explaining the background to the colony's founding. Almost as much of the book is set in England as it is in the new colony.
Big Chief Elizabeth by Giles Milton - Giles Milton is definitely popular, rather than academic, history, but he has a great readable style and his books seem to be well researched. This book is about the precursors to the Jamestown colony in Virginia, including the lost colony of Roanoke.
The Island at the Centre of the World by Russell Shorto - the story of the founding of New York (New Amsterdam) based on 17th century Dutch records which have only recently been discovered/translated. An extremely good book.
A Voyage Long and Strange by Anthony Horowitz - a popular history book about early European colonisation attempts of America, before the successful Jamestown colony. Written as a semi-travelogue by the author, but an interesting read.
The Age of Reconnaissance by J. H. Parry: A formidable classic on the Western Expansion and the age of exploration. Parry provides a dense but excellent description of how the west was able to conquer and their motivations. His section on the development of scientific navigation is particularly good.
East Asian History--The study of civilizations ultimately derived from the Yellow River Valley
China
China: A New History by John K. Fairbank: An excellent introduction to the topic by the doyen of American Sinology. China's modern history is the main concern, but the earlier periods are treated sufficiently.
The Search for Modern China by Jonathan Spence. It's a pretty good overview that starts with the Ming and goes through the late 1980s. Covers all the bases. Nothing is covered in exceptional depth (with a subject like China it rarely can be in a single book) but for a general idea of recent Chinese history it's more than adequate. Also, a very readable book.
A History of Chinese Civilization by Jacques Gernet: A readable and detailed survey of Chinese history that is notable for not prejudicing modern history over earlier periods. It heavily focuses on intellectual and cultural history, and at times the details of the political history get ignored, but any survey this ambitious must make cuts. The account of the nineteenth century is particularly vivid.
China's Cosmopolitan Empire: The Tang Dynasty by Mark Edward Lewis: Divided between sections on history, geography, the economy, society, and culture, this book is comprehensive without being overloaded--whether your interests are agriculture, the status of women, or the nature of the poet in society you will find information here. It also does well at torpedoing national mythology.
Japan
As We Saw Them by Masao Miyoshi is a highly readable account of the first Japanese mission to the west. It offers an interesting reversal of the typical narrative of Westerners observing inscrutable "Orientals." (1860)
Civilization and Monsters by Gerald Figal: an academic book, but extremely readable (in my opinion- the one amazon reviewer disagrees). Its central thesis that discourse on monsters, ghosts, the supernatural was central to the formation of modern Japan is surprisingly innovative, and fun to read. (Meiji period)
Mongolia
Genghis Khan and the Making of the Modern World: Entertaining, interesting and good for history geeks and the general population. There are some misrepresentations that the author makes, and I also think that he relies on the Secret History a little too much, but all in all, awesome!
South Asian History
Modern South Asia by Sugata Bose and Ayesha Jalal: A very concise (less than 200 pages of narrative) history of South Asia from around 1600 CE onward. A very accessible and complete explanation of British colonialism in South Asia with a well-rounded perspective of the subsequent nationalist movements.
Native American Peoples
Pre-Columbian
1491 by Charles Mann: A popular history book that covers the general history of Native Americans until European contact. It discusses both North and South America. Although Mann is not a professional historian, his work is very thought-provoking and approachable for a lay-audience. He also has a follow-up book, 1493, which covers interactions between Europeans and Native Americans post-contact.
Post-Columbian
The Cherokee Cases This book isn't too difficult, and it adds in a great deal about President Jackson, which is always a crowd pleaser. Although, this might sadden a great deal of Jackson lovers. This book details the politics behind Worcester v Georgia and Cherokee Nation v Georgia, which are the cornerstones of Native American Law.
Custer Died For Your Sins by Vine Deloria Jr: This book went a long way in shifting the focus of Anthropology and History away from Indians as objects and victims towards Indians as active participants. Written in 1969, I make sure students read this before they are allowed to talk about Native History. Indians have fantastic senses of humor, and this book really shows it.
Landscape Traveled by Coyote and Crane by Rodney Frey: This is is a representation of the perfect way in which to work with tribes to do Anthropology and History. He uses old stories and modern stories told by living Coeur d'Alene people to contextualize everything he writes. He involves the Coeur d'Alene people without losing his focus or professionalism.
Trail of Tears: The Rise and Fall of the Cherokee Nation by John Ehle: A very readable history of the Cherokee Nation. It follows the life of John Ridge, a Cherokee leader whose rise and fall parallels that of the nation.
Cultural/Intellectual History
A Most Dangerous Book: Tacitus's Germania from the Roman Empire to the Third Reich by Christopher B. Krebs: Provides an interesting history of Tacitus's Germania from contextualizing its writing to how it was sought after in Renaissance Italy to how it was eventually used for propaganda purposes.
Buddhism in China: A Historical Survey by Kenneth Ch'en: An excellent history of Chinese Buddhism, including its intellectual development and the societal reactions to it.
From Dawn to Decadence: 1500 to the Present: 500 Years of Western Cultural Life by Jacques Barzun: A magisterial work of cultural history, an end-of-life summa penned by one of the most civilized men ever to exist. It's both scholarly and accessible, narrated in gorgeous prose, and deserves a place on your bookshelf next to Thucydides, Tacitus, Gucciardini, Gibbon, Macaulay, and Burckhardt.
Pioneers of Photography by Aaron Scharf. Contains personal writings of Nicephore Niepce, the inventor of the first photograph, as well as biographies of other pioneers and an in-depth discussion of their techniques.
Picture Machine: The Rise of American Newspictures by William Hannigan and Ken Johnston. While mostly a collection of photographs, there is a very nice preface that discusses the adoption of photography by newspaper companies.
Hippie by Barry Miles: An excellent, detailed history of the counter culture from 1965-71 in both England and the U.S, from Ken Kesey and the Magic Bus, to the music scenes, to hippies, and Vietnam protests, he covers a lot. Also, there are a lot of pretty pictures and it looks great on a coffee table.
Possessing Nature: Museums, Collecting, and Scientific Culture in Early Modern Italy by Paula Findlen: This book looks at the development of scientific culture in Europe, using early modern (northern) Italy as a case study. Cultural forces like patronage and identity have large roles in proto-scientific circles.
Playboy and the Making of the Good Life in America by Elizabeth Fraterrigo and Bachelors and Bunnies: The Sexual Politics of Playboy by Carrie Pitzulo - both excellent books about not only Playboy magazine, but also postwar culture, American consumerism, and shifting gender roles in the 1960s and 1970s. You don't even have to have read Playboy to understand them!
Exploration
The Last Expedition: Stanley's Mad Journey Through the Congo by Daniel Liebowitz and Charles Pearson: This is the ideal book for anyone interested in Exploration. Stanley represents the end of the colonial explorer because of the intense and frightening stories brought back to England.
Over the Edge of the World by Laurence Bergreen: Bergreen is not a professional historian, but he presents the story of Magellan's circumnavigation in an entertaining way. He doesn't add anything new to the table, but I can respect someone who can take primary documents and make them enjoyable to read.
Longitude by Dava Sobel: This book details how the world figured to procedure of finding longitudinal coordinates in the world. Great Britain offered a huge cash prize to anyone able to work out a way to find longitude. Without a way to track longitude reliably, ships had been getting lost and running aground.
The Worst Journey in the World by Apsley Cherry-Gerrard: This is a first hand account written by one of the scientist on the expedition to the South Pole. The book is impressive because of how disastrous and pointless their expedition turn out. Terrific examples of the conditions near the pole.
Terrorism
The History of Terrorism: From Antiquity to Al-Qaeda by Gerard Chaliand and Arnaud Blin: Two French scholars trace the path of terrorism from the ancient world to the present day, with a particularly lucid section differentiating terrorism from other acts of violence. (academic)
A History of Terrorism by Walter Laqueur: Another broad history of terrorism. Laqueur takes an interesting stance, arguing that history and the social sciences can't accurately explain terrorism; instead, he believes studying literature is the best method for arriving at accurate conclusions about the phenomenon.
Inside Terrorism by Bruce Hoffman: Maybe considered the best work on terrorism. Holistic study explaining the era of modern terrorism (1968-present), with particularly adept analysis of the relationship between the media and terrorist groups. (academic)
The Looming Tower by Lawrence Wright: Excellent narrative history of the birth and rise of al-Qaeda, told mainly through multiple biographies of the key players.
Bringing the War Home: The Weather Underground, the Red Army Faction and Revolutionary Violence in the Sixties and Seventies by Jeremy Varon: A comparative work detailing the similarities and differences of German and American society in the 1960s and 1970s, as well as between the two terrorist organizations.*
Christianity
The Historical Figure of Jesus by E P Sanders. A popularization of his important work Jesus and Judaism. Intended for non-specialists, which may find the former incomprehensible.
The Historical Jesus: Life of a Mediterranean Jewish Peasant by John Crossan. I personally disagree with pretty well every word Crossan writes. But even when he's wrong, he's wonderfully productive. A contrast to Sanders view, representing two sides of one of the major debates of the last quarter century or so.
Paul: A Very Short Introduction by E P Sanders Sanders' work on Paul in his more academic books revolutionized Pauline studies over the last half century. The VSI series is always excellent, and this is no exception. A wonderful introduction to recent work on Paul and the so-called "New Perspective on Paul."
History of Science
The Pasteurization of France by Bruno Latour: I think Latour does a good job at showing the social and cultural prerequisites necessary to encourage the French to accept Pasteur's microbes as revealed truth, as well as the process by which these conditions are obscured in favor of the "Great Man" thesis.
A Social History of Truth: Civility and Science in Seventeenth-Century England by Steve Shapin: Shapin deftly argues that the practice of science in seventeenth-century England relied heavily on the reliable word of "experts" in a particular field, as experiments were expensive and laborious to reproduce. Trust emerges as a critical element in the production of scientific knowledge, and Shapin demonstrates that what we assume to be objective in science often rests on this foundation of trust in the scientist (as it does in every academic field).
Galileo, Courtier: The Practice of Science in the Culture of Absolutism by Mario Biagioli: Biagioli shows how crucial the patron/client relationship was for scientists in early modern Europe - particularly for Galileo and his principal patron, Pope Urban VIII. Again, this is another work that unpacks the social networks that undergird(ed) scientific study.
Objectivity by Lorraine Daston and Peter Galison: The book traces a critical problem of representation in the Scientific Revolution, particularly relating to representing objects of scientific study in atlases. For example: when making an entry for oak trees in a botany book, what kind of picture should one include? No two oak trees will look the same (though they will look similar), so how does the artist draw it so that it can be easily recognized in real life by referencing the atlas? How do you draw something like cloud formations in an atlas to demonstrate the difference between Cirrus and Cumulus clouds, even though clouds are constantly changing shape? Daston and Galison do a great job explaining the context of these debates and anxieties and what they reveal about the practice of science.
